For many people, just to hear
the word “slave”
leaves a bitter taste in their mouth.
They associate the word
with the following definition.
Listen carefully to it, please:
“A human being who is owned as property
“by another
and is absolutely subject to his will,
“or a bond servant divested of all freedom
and personal rights.”
The word “slave” may bring to mind
the trafficking in slaves,
especially the buying
and selling of blacks for profit
prior to the American Civil War.
Well, that having been said,
the Bible’s use of the word “slave”
does not leave a bad taste in our mouths
but a sweet taste.
Yes, we were bought
with the precious blood of another human
—a perfect one—
we all know to be Jesus.
And Paul told
the early Christians in Corinth:
“You do not belong to yourselves,
for you were bought with a price.”
The 24 elders too in Revelation 5:9
sing to Jesus, “the Lamb of God.”
Open your Bibles, please, to this
—that’s the ninth verse
of the fifth chapter
of Revelation,
and it reads this way:
“And they sing a new song, saying:
“‘You are worthy to take the scroll
and open its seals,
“‘for you were slaughtered
and with your blood you bought people
“‘for God out of every tribe and tongue
and people and nation.’”
Well, that’s true.
That’s what has happened,
and we are all happy for that.
But we all know that we are slaves of God.
We have been bought and paid for.
But we’re happy slaves, aren’t we?
We work diligently to please our owners,
Jehovah and Jesus.
And that’s what Bethel is all about too.
We work hard as slaves.
To be a slave of Jehovah
is a cherished privilege.
Just to be owned by God
—to belong to him—
is the best thing that could happen
to any one of us.
That is how
“the faithful and discreet slave” feels
as the feeding of the domestics
is accomplished each day.
Now, you see members of the Governing Body
walking here and there
in the various complexes here
in the United States
from time to time.
Every now and then, we’ll go up to Canada,
go other places throughout the world,
and you see a few of us walking around too.
What are some things that occupy
the time of the faithful slave
and their attention?
I just jotted down a few things.
Now, I’m going to go through them very fast
because we don’t have a lot of time,
but you just think about them:
making decisions
that affect the lives of all sheep​
—​publishers, auxiliary, regular,
special pioneers, missionaries,
circuit overseers, Bethel family members​—​
all over the world;
deciding whether new branch facilities
are needed in various countries
throughout the world;
deciding on the needs
in the field of computers,
a field that just keeps growing and growing
with each passing week;
looking into legal fights
we’re having all over the world;
deciding the best approach
to helping brothers and sisters
who have been struck by natural disasters,
how much money can be allotted, and so forth;
deciding on assembly
and convention program themes,
dramas, broadcast programs, videos,
new songs, Morning Worship programs;
involvement with all
the schools being taught,
and there’s no end to them;
reading and checking and approving
all material that will be printed;
looking and approving all artwork
that will be used in our publications;
what new languages to start translating;
decide on what will appear
on jw.org and JW Library®
(and, of course, that has
really been a jewel, and still is);
final approval
on all audio recordings of the Bible;
organizes international
and special conventions;
organizes branch dedications
and Assembly Hall dedications worldwide;
involved with all teaching;
constantly looking to
and praying to Jehovah for direction
in shepherding his sheep.
Now, what has been said is probably only half
of what is done
by “the faithful and discreet slave.”
What is accomplished
is not by human effort alone,
but it is by means of God’s holy spirit
and direction given by Jesus,
the head of the congregation.
While all major decisions
and approvals are made
by “the faithful and discreet slave,”
we have 30 most qualified helpers
and several other brothers
who work hard in assisting us
to accomplish our responsibility
of feeding and caring for Jehovah’s sheep.
Their work does not go unnoticed.
Now, some of us
may be viewed as “Iron Chefs,”
but we’re not the only ones in the kitchen;
you better believe that.
The entire Bethel family helps as well.
We hear you praying
in our behalf on a regular basis,
and we thank you for your prayers.
Is it any wonder that the apostle Paul
is found admonishing sheep
to “be industrious,
not lazy”?
“Be aglow with the spirit,” he says,
and then he ends up by saying:
“Slave for Jehovah.”
That’s Romans 12:11.
By becoming loyally obedient slaves
of God and Jesus,
we become their friends.
Let’s look at something here in our Bibles,
John 15:15.
It reads this way:
“I no longer call you slaves,
“because a slave does not know
what his master does.
“But I have called you friends,
because I have made known to you
all the things I have heard from my Father.”
Isn’t that beautiful?
That’s Jesus.
That’s what he does.
And we appreciate it so much
—what he does for us.
So those who follow Jesus,
while slaves, are also his friends.
That’s a blessing.
Can you think of a better position
to be in than being a friend of Jesus?
If we have Jesus’ friendship,
then we automatically have
Jehovah’s friendship.
So don’t let the word “slave”
put a bad taste in your mouth.
It’s a sweet thing.
It’s honey to the palate.